---
title:  "Miyajima - A cute island off of Hiroshima"
date: 2019-04-18T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - japan

toc: true
toc_label: "Miyajima"
toc_sticky: true

tori_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2942.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2942.jpg
    alt: "selfie with tori"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2975.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2975.jpg
    alt: "julie and tori"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3509.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3509.jpg
    alt: "flowers"

sakura_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2948.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2948.jpg
    alt: "sakura and temple"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2946.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2946.jpg
    alt: "sakura"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2727.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2727.jpg
    alt: "sakura"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3508.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3508.jpg
    alt: "sakura"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2945.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2945.jpg
    alt: "vince and julie"

lodging_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2932.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2932.jpg
    alt: "sakura and temple"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3065.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3065.jpg
    alt: "sakura"
    title: "homemade plum wine for breakfast"

dinner_gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2941.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2941.jpg
    alt: "beer"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3081.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3081.jpg
    alt: "omurice"
  - url: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3082.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-3082.jpg
    alt: "oysters"
---

This was my third time visiting this island, but I really don't get tired of coming here!  It's so cute and picturesque, and although they are not quite as bold as the deer in Nara, there are quite a few deer roaming around this island as well.  


Many people visit Miyajima as a day trip from Hiroshima.  If you're short on time, this is very doable, and housing in Hiroshima is much more plentiful and affordable.  You can take the JR Sanyo Line to Miyajimaguchi Station, then take the short, 10 minute ferry ride over to the island.  However, if you have extra time to spare, I would highly recommend staying on the island.  The shopping street, Omotesando, is ridiculously crowded during the day, but quiets down in the afternoon and in the early morning.  Itsukushima Shrine also often queues up a long line to take a picture in front of the floating torii, unless you go early in the morning.  We also had an extra bonus the night that we stayed there, because they set off fireworks near the floating torii at 8pm. 

### Things to Do

- Itsukushima Shrine - This is a beautiful shrine, and the famous floating torii are the gateway to this shrine.  The torii is not actually floating, but during high tide, the gate appears to be floating, whereas during low tide, you can walk up to the torii on the sand.  Since it's prettier at high tide, you may want to look up the tides ahead of time:   https://www.tidetime.org/asia/japan/miyajima.htm  If you're staying on the island and have more flexibility with your time, they also post the tide times at the entrance of the shrine.  The shrine opens at 6:30am every day, and I think we went around 7am, and only encountered a few other tourists milling around.  For any photographers, please note that they don't allow you to set up a tripod on the shrine grounds.  It's first and foremost a shrine, over being a tourist attraction!  Other shrines/temples to visit include Toyokuni Shrine (better known as the five-story pagoda), Daishoin Temple, and Takimiya Shrine, which leads to the Shiraito Falls.  


{% include gallery id="tori_gallery" layout="third" %}

- Parks - We visited Omoto Park and Momijidani Park, again in search of cherry blossoms.  These parks are fantastic, because not many people wander too far from  Itsukushima Shrine, the aquarium, and other popular attractions, like the five-story pagoda.  If you're up for some hiking, Omoto Park leads to the Misen Mountain Path Omoto Course, and Momijidani Park leads to the Momijidani Course and to the Miyajima Ropeway.  We found groves of cherry blossom trees in both parks, as well as little groups of deer, grazing on the grass.  

{% include gallery id="sakura_gallery" layout="half" %}

### Lodging

We stayed at the Miyajima Hotel New Kotobuki, which was a little over $200 USD per night and didn't include any kaiseki meals.  Again, it's a little pricier to stay on Miyajima, but worth it to avoid crowds and have more time to explore.  We loved this hotel, which was set up more like a ryokan.  I'm not sure if the couple (I assume they're a couple!) running the ryokan spoke English, because I didn't really try, but the okami did throw out a few English words here and there when she learned that we were visiting from the U.S.  She was very friendly and welcoming, and made us feel like we were part of the ryokan family, even for our short stay.  Her husband was also very friendly, and made conversation with me, even with my broken Japanese.  Even though there is no formal breakfast, they have a morning "snack and coffee" corner in their "living room," which included croissant, fruit, yogurt, coffee/tea, and even a homemade plum wine!

{% include gallery id="lodging_gallery" layout="" %}

### Food

- Mametanuki - I literally still think about how good this lunch was and crave it every now and then.  Even though I am more of an unagi (freshwater eel) fan, Miyajima is known for their anago (saltwater eel) and oysters, and this meal did not disappoint.  I ordered an anago-meshi and kaki fry (fried oyster) set, and savored every bite.  The rice was piping hot for the entire meal, which may not seem like a big deal, but makes the anago dish that much tastier.  The anago was seasoned and broiled perfectly, and tasted super fresh.  We found this place right after we dropped off our luggage at our hotel, by just walking along Omotesando and checking out different restaurant menus. 
There are countless restaurants that sell anago-meshi, and maybe they're all good, but I was thoroughly impressed by this one.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/anago.jpg" alt="anago" %}

- Kishibe - There aren't a whole lot of options for dinner, as many of the restaurants close early once most tourists return to Hiroshima for the night.  However, our hotel had Kishibe listed as one of the options available for dinner nearby.  This is an okonomiyaki [^1] restaurant, with the seats arranged in a U-shape around the chef, who cooks the okonimyaki on a large teppan in front of you. The chef herself is the cutest little old lady who cooks and chats with you happily, although she doesn't speak much English.  When we got there, all the seats were filled with foreigners, who were learning how to say okonomiyaki and having competitions with each other about who could finish their entire okonimiyaki.  We sat at a little kiddie side table, but 2 seats around the teppan quickly opened up, and we joined everyone else at the counter.  We chose the mixed seafood okonomiyaki, and of course it was Hiroshima-style, which is my favorite.  Hiroshima-style okonomiyaki adds soba or udon, thus is quite a bit more filling, in contrast with Osaka-style okonomiyaki.

{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2934.jpg" alt="chef cooking" caption="cute chef"%}
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2937.jpg" alt="okonomiyaki" caption="Hiroshima-style okonomiyaki, with udon" %}

- Miyajima Brewery - This is actually a great spot for a meal, since it overlooks the bay and the torii.  You can get a flight of beer for a nice tasting, and as a brewery, they of course have a variety of fried foods that go well with beer.  I ordered the anago omurice (rice with an omelette on top), which was really tasty.

{% include gallery id="dinner_gallery" layout="third" %}
{% include figure image_path="/assets/images/japan_2019/fukuoka_to_miyajima/IMG-2933.jpg" alt="momiji manju" caption="my favorite, momiji manju!" class="align-center" %}

[^1]: For those unfamiliar with okonomiyaki, it's a savory "pancake-like" dish, often made of flour, nagaimo (yam), eggs, and shredded cabbage, as well as a variety of other ingredients, ranging from thin pork, shimp, octopus, and squid, to mochi and cheese. A special sauce, mayonnaise, nori flakes, and bonito flakes are often used as toppings.  The style of okonomiyaki can vary greatly based on region.
